# net/http package in golang
Instead of no offical network library in C, there is an officail package in golang. As a result we need to manage tcp connection, analyze tcp packet to http request, response to client and finally finalize the http request.  
But in golang, all of such works can be skiped with `import` instruct:)) To build a web server framework, we can concentrated more attention to how to encapsulate the http basic feature for quickly development and robust maintaince.  
Let's first to see features in `net/http` package as golang offical package. [Here](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http#section-documentation) is the offical document of http package in golang.  

## 1.Variable in http
- http **protocol** error string.  
- http error which is returned by `ResponseWriter.Write`.  
- context key of server and address which will be used to access server and connection.
- default client
- servemux
- Error on data in http request  
ErrAbortHandler, ErrBodyReadAfterClose, ErrLineTooLong, ErrMissingFile, ErrNoCookie, ErrNoLocation, ErrServerClosed, ErrSkipAltProtocol, ErrUseLastResponse and so on.  

We can see that all of those variables are used in internal http, especially error happens in server side.  

## 2.Function in http
I just put some important functions with some explaination here.  
In 2.3 and 2.4 we can easily find that why golang is suitable to develop web backend. It has already encapsulated the basic network method.  
### 2.1 `func DetectContentType(data []byte) string`  
- What is Content-Type?  
First thing is that what is `content-type`? Let's look at [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Type).  
> The Content-Type representation header is used to indicate the original media type(also is named as **MIME TYPE**) 
> of the resource (prior to any content encoding applied for sending).  

A MIME type usually consists by two part, `type` and `subtype`.  
The type represents the general category into which the data type falls, such as video or text.
```
type/subtype
```
The subtype identifies the exact kind of data of the specified type the MIME type represents. For example, for the MIME type text, the subtype might be plain (plain text), html (HTML source code), or calendar (for iCalendar/.ics) files.  
An optional parameter can be added to provide additional details:
```
type/subtype;parameter=value
```
For example, for any MIME type whose main type is text, you can add the optional charset parameter to specify the character set used for the characters in the data. If no charset is specified, the default is ASCII (US-ASCII) unless overridden by the user agent's settings. To specify a UTF-8 text file, the MIME type text/plain;charset=UTF-8 is used.  


Back to topic, why this function name contains word `detect`? In [algorithm](https://mimesniff.spec.whatwg.org/) provided by golang, it points out reason.  
>The HTTP Content-Type header field is intended to indicate the MIME type of an HTTP response. However, many HTTP servers supply a Content-Type header field value that does not match the actual contents of the response. Historically, web browsers have tolerated these servers by examining the content of HTTP responses in addition to the Content-Type header field in order to determine the effective MIME type of the response.  

It always returns a valid `Content-Type`, if the given data cannot be judge to any valid content type it returns to `application/octet-stream`.

### 2.2 `func Error(w ResponseWriter, error string, code int)`  
Error replies to the request with the specified error message and HTTP code. It does not otherwise end the request; the caller should ensure no further writes are done to w. The error message should be plain text.  

Notice that in description there is one sentence:  
> It does not otherwise end the request

As a result we immidiately come up with a problem, **when a request is end?**.  
@todo: going to find answer  

### 2.3 `func Handle(pattern string, handler Handler)`
Handle registers the handler for the given pattern in the DefaultServeMux. The documentation for ServeMux explains how patterns are matched.


### 2.4 `func HandleFunc(pattern string, handler func(ResponseWriter, *Request))` 
HandleFunc registers the handler function for the given pattern in the DefaultServeMux. The documentation for ServeMux explains how patterns are matched.  

### 2.5 `func ListenAndServe(addr string, handler Handler) error`  
ListenAndServe listens on the TCP network address addr and then calls Serve with handler to handle requests on incoming connections. Accepted connections are configured to enable TCP keep-alives. The handler is typically nil, in which case the DefaultServeMux is used. ListenAndServe always returns a non-nil error.
Obviously it encapsulates the tcp listening socket and corresponding management method to make it clear for programmer.  

### 2.6 `func ListenAndServeTLS(addr, certFile, keyFile string, handler Handler) error`  
ListenAndServeTLS acts identically to ListenAndServe, except that it expects HTTPS connections. Additionally, files containing a certificate and matching private key for the server must be provided. If the certificate is signed by a certificate authority, the certFile should be the concatenation of the server's certificate, any intermediates, and the CA's certificate.  
@todo: find out how it works. My experiences on `https` and `tls` layer for http services are expose port to serve http request and use nginx forwarding to do this. How about set it directly by this function here?  

### 2.7 `func MaxBytesReader(w ResponseWriter, r io.ReadCloser, n int64) io.ReadCloser`  
This function is intended for limiting the size of incoming request bodies. In contrast to io.LimitReader, MaxBytesReader's result is a ReadCloser, returns a non-EOF error for a Read beyond the limit, and closes the underlying reader when its Close method is called. MaxBytesReader prevents clients from accidentally or maliciously sending a large request and wasting server resources.  

### 2.8 `func ParseHTTPVersion(vers string) (major, minor int, ok bool)`
ParseHTTPVersion parses an HTTP version string. "HTTP/1.0" returns (1, 0, true). Note that strings without a minor version, such as "HTTP/2", are not valid.  
@todo: why need to parse http request version?  
#### what is http version?  
Let's look at [evolution of http](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Evolution_of_HTTP).  
- `http/0.9`:
    - no version number
    - no header
    - only GET
    - no protocol
    - no server
    - no port in URL  
- `http/1.0`: 
    - version number in end of request line
    - status code at the beginning of a response
    - header in request and response
    - Content-Type is introduced  

- `http/1.1`:  
Notice that `http/1.1` is **the standardized protocol**.  
    - A connection could be reused, which saved time. It no longer needed to be opened multiple times to display the resources embedded in the single original document.  
    - pipelining was added. This allowed a second request to be sent before the answer to the first one was fully transmitted. This lowered the latency of the communication.
    - Chunked responses were also supported.
    - Additional cache control mechanisms were introduced.
    - Content negotiation, including language, encoding, and type, was introduced. A client and a server could now agree on which content to exchange.
    - Thanks to the Host header, the ability to host different domains from the same IP address allowed server collocation.  

- `http/2`:  
    - It's a **binary protocol** rather than a text protocol. It can't be read and created manually. Despite this hurdle, it allows for the implementation of improved optimization techniques.
    - It's a **multiplexed protocol**. Parallel requests can be made over the same connection, removing the constraints of the HTTP/1.x protocol.
    - It **compresses headers**. As these are often similar among a set of requests, this removes the duplication and overhead of data transmitted.
    - It allows a server to **populate data in a client cache** through a mechanism called the server push.  

### 2.9 Some proxy functions 
Ahhh, I know nothing about proxy and those function will be ignored here with a `todo`.
@todo.  

### 2.10 `func Serve(l net.Listener, handler Handler) error`
Serve accepts incoming HTTP connections on the listener l, **creating a new service goroutine for each**. The service goroutines read requests and then call handler to reply to them. The handler is typically nil, in which case the DefaultServeMux is used.  
HTTP/2 support is only enabled if the Listener returns *tls.Conn connections and they were configured with "h2" in the TLS Config.NextProtos.  
Serve always returns a non-nil error.

### 2.11 `func ServeContent(w ResponseWriter, req *Request, name string, modtime time.Time, content io.ReadSeeker)`
ServeContent replies to the request using the content in the provided ReadSeeker.  
The main benefit of ServeContent over io.Copy is that:  
- handles Range requests properly
- sets the MIME type 
- handles If-Match, If-Unmodified-Since, If-None-Match, If-Modified-Since, and If-Range requests.
- detect content-type and set it  
If the response's Content-Type header is not set, ServeContent first tries to deduce the type from name's file extension and, if that fails, falls back to reading the first block of the content and passing it to DetectContentType. The name is otherwise unused; in particular it can be empty and is never sent in the response.
- set modtime in response  
If modtime is not the zero time or Unix epoch, ServeContent includes it in a Last-Modified header in the response.
- Sent by modtime if If-Modified-Since header set  
If the request includes an If-Modified-Since header, ServeContent uses modtime to decide whether the content needs to be sent at all.
The content's Seek method must work: ServeContent uses a seek to the end of the content to determine its size.
- set corresponding flag if set ETag  
If the caller has set w's ETag header formatted per RFC 7232, section 2.3, ServeContent uses it to handle requests using If-Match, If-None-Match, or If-Range.

Note that *os.File implements the io.ReadSeeker interface.  

In short `ServeContent` can do many things automatically and shorten developer budget.  
