# Some key concepts in Gin
To be honest, the code of gin is pretty and clean as it encapsulates the packages and logic well. In this article, I will overview the whole gin project and descript some interesting points which are deserved to learn about.

## Interesting topics
### How to handle the http request and how to enter the logic.
As http based on tcp, it's normal to handle http connections based on tcp socket in a web server. However, this action introduces the complexity unavoidly especial in http/2 supporting case. Integrating the web server logic based on the `conn,_ := listener.Accept()` and analysis http packet itself is not ideal even with the help of the http library.  
Gin uses the `http.ListenAndsServe(address, engine.Handler())` to handle the http request to avoid analyzing packet ourselft. The core function of gin is to interact the process after the whole http 
request has been already analyzed.

### Route tree
Route tree aims to manage the route handle which is registered by users. Instead of using map directly, gin uses prefix tree to manage the handler.

### Middleware management
As mentioned up, gin proceeds in the http request handling so the scope of middleware will be integrated in the http request processing. The call chain in middleware and the `Next` interface is useful and well designed.

### Logger middleware
Gin uses logger as middleware instead of referencing a logger inside the gin engine. 

### Router group
Router group allows to register middleware in a certain group with some handlers.
