# How nginx analyzes nginx.conf file
The privous article showed where the config file loaded to process, in this chapter we will continue to foucs on nginx.conf file and then find how it is analyzed.  

The function is more than 300 lines so I wouldn't like to put them here. Instead of it, I would like to give some examples to show principle of reading config file. An important function is `ngx_conf_read_token`, so what is token in nginx? Obviously it cannot be jwt-token in web backend development. Token is more similar to token in compiler design. In compiler design, token is also called lexical token. A lexical token is a sequence of characters that can be treated as a unit in the grammar of the programming languages. When it comes to nginx, token is very same.  
In following text, `user`, `www-data`, `worker_processes`, `auto` and so on are all token. For `#` symble `mutil_accept` and `on` are not token.  

```shell
user www-data;
worker_processes auto;
pid /run/nginx.pid;

events {
        worker_connections 768;
        # mutil_accept on
}
```
Back to function `ngx_conf_read_token`, there is a `for(;;)` endless loop. It's easy to guess that it needs to analyze mutilple token at once. The things we need to pay attention are:  
- How `ngx_conf_read_token` analyzes token?
- When endless loop in function will quit?

## 1. How nginx represents file?  
When it comes to analyze token, we must learn about file representing in nginx. To know nginx file, we first review file in linux.  
### 1.1 File in linux
@todo: Read your book **Understanding the Linux Kernel** to see file part.  
### 1.2 `ngx_file_t`  
File descripter and file name are normal to represennt file. but the following data member 
```c
struct ngx_file_s {
    ngx_fd_t                   fd;
    ngx_str_t                  name;
    ngx_file_info_t            info;

    off_t                      offset;
    off_t                      sys_offset;

    ngx_log_t                 *log;
    //ignore some ifdef 
    unsigned                   valid_info:1;
    unsigned                   directio:1;
};
```


```c
typedef struct {
    ngx_file_t            file;
    ngx_buf_t            *buffer;
    ngx_buf_t            *dump;
    ngx_uint_t            line;
} ngx_conf_file_t;

struct ngx_buf_s {
    u_char          *pos;
    u_char          *last;
    off_t            file_pos;
    off_t            file_last;

    u_char          *start;         /* start of buffer */
    u_char          *end;           /* end of buffer */
    ngx_buf_tag_t    tag;
    ngx_file_t      *file;
    ngx_buf_t       *shadow;
    //ignore some 
};
```

@todo: finish it after reading linux file.  



## 2. How ngx_conf_read_token read token and where it stores?
In endless loop, there are some condition judges about whether the loop should end and return.  
- `b->pos >= b->last`  
b's type is `ngx_buf_t*`, this judge may check whether the buffer is overflow and should be ended.  
    - `cf->conf_file->file.offset >= file_size`  
    Check whether reading file is ended. So why file offset may larger than filesize? @todo: what happened when reading file and modified its offset value?  
    - `len == NGX_CONF_BUFFER`  
    Attention that `NGX_CONF_BUFFER` is equal to 4096. If len is 4096 and then function will return `NGX_ERROR`.  
    - Calculate left size and check whether it's valid  
    In this stage it reads file to buffer and then just operates buffer by calling function `n = ngx_read_file(&cf->conf_file->file, b->start + len, size,cf->conf_file->file.offset);` at `\src\core\ngx_conf_file.c:589`.  
        - `n != size`  
        Here if the size of characters got from reading file is not equal to the size you want to get, function will return with `NGX_ERROR`. **So I interpret that the outermost if condition will only be executed once which aims to load file content to buffer**.  


After reading file content to buffer, it's on track to analyze config file based on accurrency content in buffer. The condition judges here have five specified case and another else. Variables meaning are guided by this [blog]() 
- `ch == LF`  
LF is `\n`, if ch is LF which `ch = *b->pos++` so the line will be increased. If `sharp_comment` is 1 then set it 0 for line ending here.    
- `sharp_comment`  
If flag value sharp_comment is 1, it means that there is a LF charactor at beginning of this line. So just continue the loop and then skip the following charactor until encouteres a LF and set `sharp_commennt` 0.    
- `quoted`  
Quoted a flag and quote is charactor `"`. If quoted is 1 and then it will be set to 0 and continue the loop.  
    > Escape sequence, the character after '\' is skipped. Then quoted is set to 0    
- `need_space`  
It will return immediately if encounter `;`, `{` or `}`. Or set value of `need_space` and `last_space`.  
    > when the token is surrounded by single or double quotes, must follow the final semicolon is a blank, a semicolon, or take braces Right bracket ( Left bracket matching is not seen in the code? ). Otherwise error.
- `last_space`  
    > 1 indicates that the characters scanned before are all blank characters. That is, the starting position of the token has not been found. 0 indicates that the starting position of the token has been found .  

- else cases  
In else cases, it handles the token it found in config content and then set the token to cf->args as type `ngx_array_t`. So the token is found and save. **Notice that it's first put pointer to array and then set token's data member values**.  

## 3.How token read by nginx are used by each module?  
In topic 2 we know that all analyzed tokens are stored into `cf->args`. So how modules read them?  
There is an example to confirm all guesses:  
```c
static ngx_command_t  ngx_core_commands[] = {

    { ngx_string("daemon"),
      NGX_MAIN_CONF|NGX_DIRECT_CONF|NGX_CONF_FLAG,
      ngx_conf_set_flag_slot,
      0,
      offsetof(ngx_core_conf_t, daemon),
      NULL },
      //ignore many lines
```
Here is an command and its set function which is the handler function in cf is declared as below:
```c
char *
ngx_conf_set_flag_slot(ngx_conf_t *cf, ngx_command_t *cmd, void *conf)
```
So token can be read by passing pointer `ngx_conf_t` named cf. 
### 3.1 How module finds the token interested by it's command set? Need it iterate?  
Back to the original position where the handler is called. Remember it in endless loop.  
```c
    if (cf->handler) {

        /*
            * the custom handler, i.e., that is used in the http's
            * "types { ... }" directive
            */

        if (rc == NGX_CONF_BLOCK_START) {
            ngx_conf_log_error(NGX_LOG_EMERG, cf, 0, "unexpected \"{\"");
            goto failed;
        }

        rv = (*cf->handler)(cf, NULL, cf->handler_conf);
        if (rv == NGX_CONF_OK) {
            continue;
        }

        if (rv == NGX_CONF_ERROR) {
            goto failed;
        }

        ngx_conf_log_error(NGX_LOG_EMERG, cf, 0, "%s", rv);

        goto failed;
    }
```
So if it want to execute mutilple callback, the handler must be modified. So I think it is highly possiable happening at `ngx_read_conf_token`.  
hmmm, why cannot I find who modifies it? :((  
--> Because this function just not call the command callback, it just used by http module and set by type directive as code comment. So if `cf->handler` is NULL and we will do nothing about it.

### 3.2 Member in type ngx_command_t
```c
struct ngx_command_s {
    ngx_str_t             name;
    ngx_uint_t            type;
    char               *(*set)(ngx_conf_t *cf, ngx_command_t *cmd, void *conf);
    ngx_uint_t            conf;
    ngx_uint_t            offset;
    void                 *post;
};
```
- name  
Name is normal for standing what command it interesting.  
- type  
Type is a little complex for allowing config token to come across in what scope of config file. It defines how many arguments the command can take, what format the arguments are and where should the command appear.  
- conf  
Conf is the level of configuration that the directive refers to or 0 if it doesn’t refer to any configuration level;
- offset  
The offset of the field in the **configuration data structure of the module** that this directive corresponds to. To calculate the offset you can use the standard offsetof macro. So what is the configuration data structure of the module?  

Catch one unlocky dog of function to find some operation about `offset`, so we find as following:  
```c
char *
ngx_conf_set_flag_slot(ngx_conf_t *cf, ngx_command_t *cmd, void *conf)
{
    //ignore some line of code
    fp = (ngx_flag_t *) (p + cmd->offset);
    //ignore some line of code
    
}
```
So we can find that the argument as `void* conf` must be pointer by the context. Look at function callstack and then we can find it's passed by `cf->handler_conf`. Who defines it? Who modifies it ?  
Remember that each module has it's unique module conf, for instance `ngx_http_auth_request_conf_t` at `\src\http\modules\ngx_http_auth_request_module.c:16`. It stores the config specified by  
### 3.3 What is type ngx_conf_t?
Struct `ngx_conf_t` always appears, so what is it? Accroding to offical document, it's `A pointer to a configuration object`.

### 3.4 The Ignored function:`ngx_conf_handler`
After `if(cf->handler)` and before goto lebel `failed` and `done`, there is an important function call which has been ignored.  
```c
rc = ngx_conf_handler(cf, rc);
```
The reason why I ignored it is that I think after executing callback function the `NGX_OK` can instead all of successful case. **That's a great mistike!**.  So step in this function, it can obtain all I want to find this afternoon. 

Acctually the command callback is called at `\src\core\ngx_conf_file.c:463`.
```c
    rv = cmd->set(cf, cmd, conf);
```
