# How nginx handles http connections
Until now all configurations from config file are stored in `cycle->conf_ctx`. Since this chapter we start to care about how nginx handles http request. We will form tcp socket to http analysis to learn
nginx better.  
In this article I want to anwser some questions as following:  
- When nginx creates socket for listening  
- What happenes if nginx listening socket receive a connection?  

## 1. When nginx creates listening socket?  
Nginx starts to handle about listening at `\src\core\ngx_cycle.c:505`. It's more than 100 code lines so I just put some key processes instead of putting all code details here.  
When reading this part, don't forget where the configuration stored and how they are stored. They are stored by command callback. We set this in config file like this:  
```shell
server {

    listen       80 default_server;
    server_name  example.com;
    root         /usr/share/nginx/html;

    location / {
    }     
}
```
So we can find such command at `\src\http\ngx_http_core_module.c:283`.
```c
    { ngx_string("listen"),
      NGX_HTTP_SRV_CONF|NGX_CONF_1MORE,
      ngx_http_core_listen,
      NGX_HTTP_SRV_CONF_OFFSET,
      0,
      NULL },
``` 

### 1.1 About yesterday confusing thought, who modifies `cycle->connection`?  
The confused that who modified `cycle->listening` yesterday is solved now after reading [blog:)](https://blog.csdn.net/woay2008/article/details/103103438). I ignored an important part that how nginx analyzes configuration in nested scopes. For example in config above the `listen` configuration is in scope of server.  
At the end of `server` scope, the function `ngx_http_block` will called `ngx_http_optimize_servers` to add all `ngx_connection_t` structs to `cycle->listening` struct.  

### 1.2 How nginx starts listening socket? 
The callback function playes the role of reading the config and stores them. So I wouldn't like to tell any more about it. After configuration analysis with `cycle->connection` modified, it iterates `cycle->connection` to establish listening sockets at `ngx_open_listening_sockets` function in `\src\core\ngx_cycle.c:618`.  
And then it does many things such as setting up flags, in short it does all thing needed to create a listening socket. `bind` and `listen` operation.

To summlize part1, nginx will create all listening sockets based on configuration file when nginx core struct `ngx_cycle_t` is initializing at function `ngx_init_cycle`.  

## 2. What happened if nginx receives a connection  
There is no doubt that all listening sockets are added to event module. So we must learn more about nginx event module first and then learn how nginx handles it. I will learn about nginx event module at next article.  
