# How nginx event module works
Before this article all of them are tell something about how config file is initialized for the whole nginx framework. Since now we will step the most important work as a web server of nginx and take an eye to it. We will learn about how nginx event module chooses IO multiplexing mothod based on operation system like `epoll`,`select` or `poll`, how nginx module is represented and so on.  
Nginx is a asynchoized event driven web server. As a result the core tasks of event framework are collecting, managing and distributing event which contains network event and timer event. Nothing could be more important than it in nginx.  

## 1. Basic structures in nginx event module
### 1.1 `ngx_event_module`
First we look the interface of nginx event module:  
```c
typedef struct {
    ngx_str_t              *name;

    void                 *(*create_conf)(ngx_cycle_t *cycle);
    char                 *(*init_conf)(ngx_cycle_t *cycle, void *conf);

    ngx_event_actions_t     actions;
} ngx_event_module_t;

```
### 1.2 `ngx_event_actions_t`
Different from other interface we can easily find that there is an action data member which every **event module MUST implement**. The action declaration is:  
```c
typedef struct {
    ngx_int_t  (*add)(ngx_event_t *ev, ngx_int_t event, ngx_uint_t flags);
    ngx_int_t  (*del)(ngx_event_t *ev, ngx_int_t event, ngx_uint_t flags);

    ngx_int_t  (*enable)(ngx_event_t *ev, ngx_int_t event, ngx_uint_t flags);
    ngx_int_t  (*disable)(ngx_event_t *ev, ngx_int_t event, ngx_uint_t flags);

    ngx_int_t  (*add_conn)(ngx_connection_t *c);
    ngx_int_t  (*del_conn)(ngx_connection_t *c, ngx_uint_t flags);

    ngx_int_t  (*notify)(ngx_event_handler_pt handler);

    ngx_int_t  (*process_events)(ngx_cycle_t *cycle, ngx_msec_t timer,
                                 ngx_uint_t flags);

    ngx_int_t  (*init)(ngx_cycle_t *cycle, ngx_msec_t timer);
    void       (*done)(ngx_cycle_t *cycle);
} ngx_event_actions_t;
```
We can easily find that those functions are bridges to operate event module. The arguments of the first four functions receiving all contain type `ngx_event_t` which is the common event in nginx.  

### 1.3 `ngx_evnet_t`
The first question is that what is an event? According to nginx event driven framework, event refers to the moment when socket/file becomes readable/writable or timer expiring evnet. So as an event structure, it must contain following things:  
- where the event comes from. It maybe a socket, a file or a timer  
- flag to specify the detail of event, such as whether it's readable? If it's writable now?  

Points listed above are my interpreting data member. Let's look up the details in source code:  
- ready: whether event is ready to operate  
- instance: whether current event is valid and not expire  
- active: whether the event is active (so what is the definition of active?)
- timeout: check whether this event is timeout  
- deferred_accept: establish tcp connection until the read data packet arrives  
- handler: the callback when this event happendes(so what is the definition of event happening?)  

### 1.4 connection in nginx
There are so many important data member in connection, I only show some important things here. There are two data members which I  didn't understand at first time of reading book. They are reading/writing event corresponding to an event:  
```c
ngx_event_t *read;
ngx_event_t *write;
```
Those two are easily to understand. The system call `epoll` can only know a file descriptor(corresponding to a connection) is writeable/readable, but when it comes to other callstack it knows which connection owns event any more.  

## 2. When events and connections are created?  
All events no matter read events or write events are initialized at `ngx_init_cycle`. @todo: check if it's right and where is it.  
```c
    ngx_event_t              *read_events;
    ngx_event_t              *write_events;
```

Connections is managed by cycle by two tructs: `connections` and `free_connections`.  
```c
    ngx_connection_t         *connections;
    ngx_connection_t         *free_connections;
    ngx_uint_t                free_connection_n;
```
Let's look up about initializations of them. There is no doubt that all initialization works are done in `create_conf` and `init_conf` in corresponding module. After carefully finding it's found at function `ngx_event_process_init` as init_process data member in `ngx_module_t`.  
It allocates memory for those data member for further steps:  
```c
    cycle->read_events = ngx_alloc(sizeof(ngx_event_t) * cycle->connection_n,
                                   cycle->log);
    if (cycle->read_events == NULL) {
        return NGX_ERROR;
    }

    rev = cycle->read_events;
    for (i = 0; i < cycle->connection_n; i++) {
        rev[i].closed = 1;
        rev[i].instance = 1;
    }

    cycle->write_events = ngx_alloc(sizeof(ngx_event_t) * cycle->connection_n,
                                    cycle->log);
    if (cycle->write_events == NULL) {
        return NGX_ERROR;
    }
```
Attention that the large of read/write event array is equal to `connection_n`. The default value of `connection_n` is defined by a macro named `DEFAULT_CONNECTIONS` with value 512. It's done at `nginx-release-1.21.1\src\event\ngx_event.c:1325`  in function `ngx_event_core_init_conf`. Additional, it's in `ngx_event_core_module` module which is the same module to `ngx_event_process_init`.  
```c
    ngx_conf_init_uint_value(ecf->connections, DEFAULT_CONNECTIONS);
    cycle->connection_n = ecf->connections;
```

Now everything about this topic is clear. They are all initializing based on steps defined in `ngx_event_core_module`. And the default connection of a process is set by number 512, if it's defined at `nginx.conf` file and will be reset by callback in command list.  

### 2.1 When `ngx_event_process_init` is called as a single process?
It's called in function `ngx_single_process_cycle` at `\src\core\nginx.c:380`. Note that `ngx_event_core_module` always the first one in all event modules, this is made sure by `./configure` script.  
```c
    for (i = 0; cycle->modules[i]; i++) {
        if (cycle->modules[i]->init_process) {
            if (cycle->modules[i]->init_process(cycle) == NGX_ERROR) {
                /* fatal */
                exit(2);
            }
        }
    }
```

### 2.2 How nginx connects relatives between listening sockets and event module?  
This is the sequal of the privous article, in previous article we walked about **when and how nginx create listening sockets**. Here the attention will be put on how event module manages listening socket.  
As we learned from `UNIX NETWORK PROGRAMMING:VOLUMN 1` authored by W.Stevens.Richard, when a listening socket detects a new tcp connection it becomes readable as subscribe `EPOLLIN` in `epoll`. In nginx it doesn't take the method that solving events returned by `epoll` and chooses a function to deal with it. However, nginx bind a callback function to one event, if this event is actived by epoll and we just need to execute its callback function.  
As a result, after listening being initialized and starting listening, the read event of listening is set to `ngx_event_accept` defined at `\src\event\ngx_event_accept.c:18`. Of course it will never change for unique task to handle new connection of listening sockets.  

## 3. How nginx chooses system call for the OS it is?  
Nginx implements many editions for different IO multiplexing system call in operation system in folder `\src\event\modules\`. In file `ngx_epoll_module.c` we can find a ifdef as following:  
```c
#if (NGX_TEST_BUILD_EPOLL)
```
That's generated by `auto/modules` and it is read by nginx code. The position of codes to specified module chosen based on OS is in function `ngx_event_core_init_conf` at `\src\event\ngx_event.c:1253` from line `1257` to `1298`.  

## 4. Important IO multiplexing system call: EPOLL
Epoll is not strange to those who have network programming experience. In nginx **epoll chooses ET(edge triggered)** for unfinished readble socket should not be return by epoll twice, it can be detected by flag based on data member in `ngx_event_t`.  
Implemention of `epoll` by kernel won't be put here because we shouldn't lose our attention to those small relative acknowledges to topic. 

## 5. Details of an event module, based on `ngx_epoll_module`  
The most function of `ngx_epoll_module` is function `ngx_epoll_process_events` defined at `\src\event\modules\ngx_epoll_module.c:784`. Its implementation is more than 200 lines so I just list some key point here. Some judgements will be showed if they are neccessary.  

### 5.1 Steps of `ngx_epoll_process_events`  
- use `epoll_wait` to get all events triggered by epoll and then check whether it's valid  
- iterate the lists modified by epoll in kernel and then get the real address of an event. detect whether it's expired    
Note that the address is modified when it was added to epoll, the last bit of address is set to refer whether this event is not expire.  
```c
        instance = (uintptr_t) c & 1;
        c = (ngx_connection_t *) ((uintptr_t) c & (uintptr_t) ~1);

        rev = c->read;

        if (c->fd == -1 || rev->instance != instance) {

            /*
             * the stale event from a file descriptor
             * that was just closed in this iteration
             */

            ngx_log_debug1(NGX_LOG_DEBUG_EVENT, cycle->log, 0,
                           "epoll: stale event %p", c);
            continue;
        }
```
- In interation, nginx will choose one queue to put event to solve it later or execute callback immediately  
```c
    if (flags & NGX_POST_EVENTS) {
        queue = rev->accept ? &ngx_posted_accept_events
                            : &ngx_posted_events;

        ngx_post_event(rev, queue);

    } else {
        rev->handler(rev);
    }

```

Note that nginx first hanldes readable events, and then handles writable events.


### 5.2 Why nginx uses variable instance to check whether an event is expired?  
As we know socket is represented as file descriptor and it's just a int number. The further details is hidden by kernel. As a result there comes to a question, how framework knows that current socket is valid instead of the generation of creating one immediately after destorying one?  
Instance was put forward to solving such questions. The last bit in address of a socket is different in such case made sure by this design. If last bit of the privous socket is 0, and the next one will be 1 at last bit. It can avoid the following case:  
- Case1  
There are three event ea,eb and ec. When solving ea it closes a fd for instance 50 and eb creates a new connection and kernel gives it fd 50. When it comes to ec, it needs to handle fd 50. However the fd 50 is the new one and the origin one is disapearing. It may cause error.  
Using instance, although it is still has possible to allocate the same fd, but the data member instance of fd embeded is quite different from the previous one.  








## 6. How nginx event module creates a new connection?  
In content before we know that `ngx_event_accept` is charged to establishing new connections. First we see the declaration of it:  
```c
void ngx_event_accept(ngx_event_t *ev);
```
The argument `ev` is the listening socket, it is called when a new connection comes. It does many things as following:  
- get handler function from `ev->data`  
Obivously that the `handler` in data comes from listening socket, so what's the handler function called and how listening socket is connected to event?  
- get a free connection from connection pool
- set socket prosperties such as nonblocking and so on
- call handler function got at first  
- check available data to decide whether there is another loop turn  
Note that when connection with type `ngx_connection_t*` array is initialized, the data member named `data` will be set to the next element. 

### 6.1 How nginx listening socket is connected to event?  
It's done in function `ngx_event_process_init` at `\src\event\ngx_event.c:778`. All listening socket will be added to the event module.  

### 6.2 What's the handler function is set?
It will choose one of them accroding to `type` member.   
```c
    rev->handler = (c->type == SOCK_STREAM) ? ngx_event_accept
                                            : ngx_event_recvmsg;
```




