# Http module in nginx
## 1. Initialization of http module
Reading configuration file and then call corresponding callback will be ignore here. It just call those functions with order: `create_conf->init+conf->create_main_conf->create_srv_conf->create_loc_conf->preconfiguration->merge`.  
After this, it will do the following things:  
- construct static binary balance search tree for location searching  
- initialize dynamic array  
- call all postconfiguration of http module
- construct `phase_engine_hanlders` array
- construct server and virtual host to support hashmap
- construct connection bewteen listening sockets and server, set up callback corresponding to new connection  


### 1.1 Eleven handling processes of http request
The eleven phases are defined at `\src\http\ngx_http_core_module.h:107`. Based on my experience the http request is like a pipe and every network component can operate it. So the first question is:  
- Does one http request stay on those phase no more than once?  
--> No, it may be convert from one phase to another phase  


```c
typedef enum {
    NGX_HTTP_POST_READ_PHASE = 0,

    NGX_HTTP_SERVER_REWRITE_PHASE,

    NGX_HTTP_FIND_CONFIG_PHASE,
    NGX_HTTP_REWRITE_PHASE,
    NGX_HTTP_POST_REWRITE_PHASE,

    NGX_HTTP_PREACCESS_PHASE,

    NGX_HTTP_ACCESS_PHASE,
    NGX_HTTP_POST_ACCESS_PHASE,

    NGX_HTTP_PRECONTENT_PHASE,

    NGX_HTTP_CONTENT_PHASE,

    NGX_HTTP_LOG_PHASE
} ngx_http_phases;
```

- `NGX_HTTP_POST_READ_PHASE`: solving request after receiving full http header  
- `NGX_HTTP_SERVER_REWRITE_PHASE`: redirect URI before match URI by location
- `NGX_HTTP_FIND_CONFIG_PHASE`:  find matched location part
- `NGX_HTTP_REWRITE_PHASE`:  modify URI after finding the match location  
- `NGX_HTTP_POST_REWRITE_PHASE`: make sure that modify URI won't cause to dead loop. If redirecting times are more than 10, it will return 500 immediately.  
- `NGX_HTTP_PREACCESS_PHASE` : phase that http module can take part in to do something  
- `NGX_HTTP_ACCESS_PHASE`: Let http modules judge whether this request is granted to be solved further  
- `NGX_HTTP_POST_ACCESS_PHASE`: when `NGX_HTTP_ACCESS_PHASE` confirm to reject one http request it is charged to send response to user.  
- `NGX_HTTP_PRECONTENT_PHASE`: @todo, this position in book is `NGX_HTTP_TRY_FILES_PHASE`. Why they are different?
- `NGX_HTTP_CONTENT_PHASE`: handle http request phase
- `NGX_HTTP_LOG_PHASE`: record log after solving  


### 1.2 Who owns data member as `ngx_http_phase`?  
As old rules we look the interface of `ngx_http_core_module` first and then the others. First look at `ngx_http_phase_handler_s` at `\src\http\ngx_http_core_module.h:133` which defines some functions and then a `next` variable with type `ngx_uint_t`. We can think of it right away that it must be a lot of `ngx_http_phase_handler_s` in someone structs.   
```c
struct ngx_http_phase_handler_s {
    ngx_http_phase_handler_pt  checker;
    ngx_http_handler_pt        handler;
    ngx_uint_t                 next;
};
``` 
- so who manages `ngx_http_phase_handler_s`?  
Ahhh let's look at a few lines below and we found that it's `ngx_http_phase_engine_t` does this work by `ngx_http_phase_handler_t  *handlers;`.
```c
typedef struct {
    ngx_http_phase_handler_t  *handlers;
    ngx_uint_t                 server_rewrite_index;
    ngx_uint_t                 location_rewrite_index;
} ngx_http_phase_engine_t;
```
So the next aim is to find out who manages `ngx_http_phase_engine_t`. It's easy to find that the `ngx_http_core_main_conf_t` at `\src\http\ngx_http_core_module.h:176` stored this. ~~And it's no need to think that when this variable is initialized, it must be done in `create_main_conf` of `ngx_http_core_module` and configured based on `nginx.conf`.~~  
```c
typedef struct {
    //ignore some variables
    ngx_http_phase_engine_t    phase_engine;
    ngx_http_phase_t           phases[NGX_HTTP_LOG_PHASE + 1];
} ngx_http_core_main_conf_t;
```
Here we just need to know that `phase_engine` is initialzed and it corresponding `phase_handler`s are connectioned through `next`. They can be executed one by one.  


## 2. Before a request into eleven phase  
**ATTENTION THAT A REQUEST IS NOT STEPED INTO ELEVEN PHASE IMMIDIATELY**.  
It is do **receive tcp data and analyze http data first**, and then it will be solved as those 11 phases. In part2 here I just want to tell something about how nginx solves data from tcp socket as http request data.  

## 2.1 Step1: Things happened before the real data comes
The read data means that the data except handshake packet data. **Nginx does nothing on initializing request except the real data comes**. Before the real data comes, we have also described that nginx use callback in listening accept case and then set the connection events as this:  
>- set callback of reading event to: `ngx_read_wait_request_handler`  
>- set callback of writing event to: `ngx_http_empty_handler`  
>- add event to timer and event module  

So when the real data comes, it starts to analyze it.

## 2.2 Step2: What happens when tcp data comes
Since now we have already knows that nginx create a new connection. And in this step the real data comes.  
- real data comes and event in event module is found  
Now the connection in the event is readable, so it is returned by event module. And now the callback function of reading event will be called. In such case it's `ngx_read_wait_request_handler` callback function. **Notice that besides listening socket nginx uses ET mode as event module**.  This means that nginx will put this event object back to event module until there is not valid data in the socket.  

- Check whether the all data in socket is completed, function `ngx_read_wait_request_handler`  
There are two case when we receive data from socket, one is all data in socket are a completed http request, the other is not. So this function will call `ngx_http_process_request_line` directly and set the reading event callback to `ngx_http_process_request_line`.  
The function `ngx_http_process_request_line` can judge whether the whole data is received.  

- analysis data for http request  
    - read all data from socket to buffer in request  
    - call `ngx_http_parse_request_line` to analyze request line. The data in request line will be stored at reuqest object  
    - set callback to `ngx_http_process_request_headers` for possible to call it many times and call it
    - call `ngx_http_run_posted_request` to deal with sub-request  







## 3.Details when http request in one of eleven phase
### 3.1 `NGX_HTTP_POST_READ_PHASE`  
When tcp client has finished to send http request header. Let's look at its checker function `ngx_http_core_generic_phase`.  
```c
ngx_int_t
ngx_http_core_generic_phase(ngx_http_request_t *r, ngx_http_phase_handler_t *ph)
{
    ngx_int_t  rc;

    /*
     * generic phase checker,
     * used by the post read and pre-access phases
     */

    ngx_log_debug1(NGX_LOG_DEBUG_HTTP, r->connection->log, 0,
                   "generic phase: %ui", r->phase_handler);

    rc = ph->handler(r);

    if (rc == NGX_OK) {
        r->phase_handler = ph->next;
        return NGX_AGAIN;
    }

    if (rc == NGX_DECLINED) {
        r->phase_handler++;
        return NGX_AGAIN;
    }

    if (rc == NGX_AGAIN || rc == NGX_DONE) {
        return NGX_OK;
    }

    /* rc == NGX_ERROR || rc == NGX_HTTP_...  */

    ngx_http_finalize_request(r, rc);

    return NGX_OK;
}
```
**Every http module who want do something on request at NGX_HTTP_POST_READ_PHASE phase must add its own function with type ngx_http_handler_pt to phases[NGX_HTTP_POST_READ_PHASE] with type ngx_array_t**. 


## 4.How nginx http module set callback to those 11 modules?  
- add callback function to the `phases` array
- call handler callback in `ngx_http_core_loc_conf_t`  


